# Gradient_Boosting_Case_Study
You may recall that we last encountered gradients when discussing the gradient descent algorithm in the context of fitting linear regression models. For a particular regression model with n parameters, an n+1 dimensional space existed defined by all the parameters plus the cost/loss function to minimize. The combination of parameters and loss function define a surface within the space. The regression model is fitted by moving down the steepest 'downhill' gradient until we reach the lowest point of the surface, where all possible gradients are 'uphill.' The final model is made up of the parameter estimates that define that location on the surface.
Throughout all iterations of the gradient descent algorithm for linear regression, one thing remains constant: The underlying data used to estimate the parameters and calculate the loss function never changes. In gradient boosting, however, the underlying data do change.
Each time we run a decision tree, we extract the residuals. Then we run a new decision tree, using those residuals as the outcome to be predicted. After reaching a stopping point, we add together the predicted values from all of the decision trees to create the final gradient boosted prediction.
Gradient boosting can work on any combination of loss function and model type, as long as we can calculate the derivatives of the loss function with respect to the model parameters. Most often, however, gradient boosting uses decision trees, and minimizes either the residual (regression trees) or the negative log-likelihood (classification trees).
Let’s go through a simple regression example using Decision Trees as the base predictors (of course Gradient Boosting also works great with regression tasks). This is called Gradient Tree Boosting, or Gradient Boosted Regression Trees. The data to be used is the Titanic Dataset.
